# Capstone-CYO-Project
Capstone (CYO) Project HarvardX PH125.9x

Scientific American published two articles, one in 2009 stating that the “entire world could get all of its energy—fuel as well as electricity—from wind, water and solar sources by 2030” (Jacobson, M.Z., & Delucchi, M.A., 2009), and another recommended the state of New York be powered with wind, water and sun, referred to “WWS” (Fischetti, M., 2013). This vision seeks to replace the use of fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) with renewable energy sources worldwide by the year 2050.  So, does statistical analysis of published aggregate data indicate it may be possible for states to produce an adequate supply of electricity using renewable sources by 2050?  Would analysis support the null hypothesis that “Statistical analysis may indicate that adequate electrical power could be produced with renewable sources”. 

The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) collects a wide range of data on the electric power industry in the United States.  Data used for this study, annual sales (“Annual Retail sales of electricity*”, 2020) and generation (“Net Generation by State*”, 2020) by state, are for the years 1990 through 2019.  Data from two datasets was combined and transformed from narrow to wide for analysis and will provide a mix of qualitative and quantitative data.  The datasets included data for years 1990-2019 and for the first decade there wasn’t a significant push for renewable energy so many states generated little or none from renewable sources. According to the EIA the major renewable sources include Biomass, which includes wood and wood derived fuels, Conventional Hydroelectric, Geothermal, Solar and Wind.

While many different tools are available, R will be used for data transformation, analysis, and visualizations.
